The files in this repository contains the code for the paper "Gaussian Processes simplify Differential Equations" by Jonghyeon Lee, Boumediene Hamzi, Yannis Kevrekidis and Houman Owhadi.

In the paper, we learn the famous Cole-Hopf transformation between the Burgers and heat equations with a generalized kernel representer formula. Cole-Hopf is famous as it is a rare example of an closed-form global map that relates a well-studied linear PDE (heat) with a nonlinear PDE of similar fame (Burgers). The Jupyter notebook "Cole Hopf transformation" demonstrates the effect of learning the Matérn kernel parameter on the accuracy of the recovered Cole-Hopf transformation between a single pair of initial conditions of the Burgers and heat equations; this can be modified to multiple initial conditions or solutions of Burgers at multiple time points. The notebook also includes a comparison with three other ML methods for recovering the transformation: PINNs, deep Galerkin methods and deep Ritz methods.

We proceed to recover another map that takes the initial condition of a 1st order nonlinear PDE as an input and returns the initial condition of a 1st order linear PDE as output. In the notebook "Differential equation, 1D example", we contains the code for this second example, where the constant coefficient in front of one of the terms in the target PDE is not known a priori and must also be approximated by a Gaussian process.

Finally, we change our focus to learn mappings between trajectories of nonlinear dynamical systems. In this case, we try to learn the local transformation around the equilibrium that maps a single trajectory of the Brusselator to a trajectory of the corresponding Poincaré normal form; the results are contained in the notebook "Brusselator" and it is easy to adapt the code by changing Brusselator parameters $A$ and $B$.
